# WSBLib - How to use

Learn how to create a web server using the `WSBLib` library.

## Understanding the request cycle

First, the entire request cycle is handled by you. You manipulate the data sent by the client, process the request and send the response, all this **using the WSBLib classes**, which facilitate this whole cycle. A **request cycle using WSBLib** looks like this:

1. Receive client data (specifically a raw HTTP message);
2. Process client request;
3. Get the requested route response;
4. Send response to customer.

If you were to create this from scratch, **without using WSBLib**, you'd have to do all of this:

1. Accept client connection;
2. Receive client data (specifically a raw HTTP message);
3. Format HTTP request data;
4. Check which route was called;
5. Check if the HTTP method is accepted by the route;
6. Generate error responses if the route is not found or the method is not accepted
7. Get the requested route response;
8. Format HTTP response data;
9. Send response to customer.

We've shortened all these steps to **just 4**, making it easy to develop your framework or web server.

## Structure of a WSBLib server

Next, we will show the basic structure of a WSBLib server and explain the function of each of the classes, methods and others. Here's the [code for this simple server](https://github.com/firlast/wsblib/blob/v1.0.0/examples/simple-server/app.py):

```python
from wsblib.route import Route
from wsblib.server import Client, Server
from wsblib.request import ProcessRequest
from wsblib.request import RequestData
from wsblib import log


def index():
    return 'Hello World!'


index_route = Route(index, '/')
request = ProcessRequest((index_route,))

server = Server()
server.start('127.0.0.1', 2808)

print('Server running in http://127.0.0.1:2808')

while True:
    client = server.wait_client()
    processed_request = request.process(client)

    if processed_request:
        request_data = processed_request.request
        process_type = processed_request.type

        if process_type == 'route':
            response = processed_request.route.get_route_response(request_data, use_globals)
        else:
            response = processed_request.route.get_callback_response(request_data)

        http = http_pyparser.response.make_response(response)

        log.log_request(response, request_data)
        client.send_message(http)
        client.destroy()
```

This example server **does not use threads**, that is, it can only serve another request after the current request is completed. You can rearrange this code so that threads are used.

### Creating routes

In the code snippet below, we create a route on the `/` path, which will call the `index_route` function to get a response and return it to the client:

```python
def index():
    return 'Hello World!'

index_route = Route(index, '/')
```

This class is used to **manipulate and obtain data** from the route requested by the user, being able to check methods, obtain parameters (for dynamic routes) and others. To ***create an instance of this class***, the required arguments are:

1. callback: Function to be called when the route is requested (`FunctionType`);
2. path: Route path (`str`);
3. methods: Route allowed methods, the allowed method by default is "GET" (`tuple`, optional).

If we want, for example, to create a route that creates, reads, updates and deletes data (CRUD), the arguments passed would be like this:

```python
profile_route = Route(profile, '/profile', methods=('GET', 'POST', 'PUT', 'DELETE'))
```

#### Dynamic routes

There is a special condition for the `path` argument. If you want to create a dynamic route, where you can access the data that was placed in the path, the path contains "variables" between "<" and ">" signs, see an example:

```python
dynamic_route = Route(users, '/user/<username>')
```

For the `users` function to be called, the `<username>` parameter must be filled in, for example: `/users/firlast`. Otherwise, a **404 (Not Found)** error will be returned to the client. You can access the dynamic route parameter later through the request data, getting the value of the parameter through its name, for example:

```python
def users(request):
    return request.parameters.get('username')
```

#### Methods of the `Route` class

There are some methods of the `Route` class that can be accessed to check and get data. The methods are:

- `get_parameters`: This function receives an argument called `requested_path`, of type `str`, if the registered route is dynamic, this method will obtain these parameters from the `requested_path` argument. If the registered route path does not match the requested path, `False` is returned. This method **does not need to be used** directly.
- `match_route`: Checks if the path specified by the `path` argument is the same as the path of the registered route.
- `accept_method`: Checks if the method passed by the argument is accepted by the route.
- `get_route_response`: Gets the return of the route's callback function to use as the route's response. The `request` argument is only passed as an argument to the callback function, if it requests, so that it can get data from the request. This method turns the function's response into an instance of the `http_pyparser.Response` class.

### Preparing for processing requests

There is a class called `ProcessRequest` that processes the request and returns an **object ready**, with data from the request and the response of the requested route. To create an instance of this class, it is necessary to pass a tuple (or list) containing ***all the routes*** of the application, that is, all instances of the `Route` class, see:

```python
def index():
    return 'Hello World!'

# create a route in "/" path
index_route = Route(index, '/')
# instantiating the class to process requests
request = ProcessRequest((index_route,))
```

In the example above, we are passing the `index` route (in the path "/") as an argument to the `ProcessRequest` class inside a tuple.

The `ProcessRequest` class has a single public method, the `process` method, which processes a client request. This method will be responsible for verifying whether the requested route exists in the application and whether the requested method is accepted by the route.

### Initializing the server

The `Server` class is responsible for **manipulating the socket** of the application, receiving connections from clients and manipulating this data. In the code snippet below, we create an instance of the `Server` class and use the `Server.start` method to start the server, passing the host and port to be used:

```python
server = Server()
# listening for client connections
server.start('127.0.0.1', 2808)
```

With that, the host is ready to receive requests, but **still won't respond to any connection**, because the server simply still doesn't accept connections. To receive requests, the `Server.wait_client` method is used. This method will wait for a request, after receiving it, an instance of the `Client` class is returned, storing the client data and the raw HTTP message.

> The `Client` class will very rarely need to be used ***by you***, it will only be used by the `ProcessRequest.process` method to process the request.